The moon Enceladus, embedded in Saturn’s radiation belts, is the main internal source of neutral and charged particles in the Kronian magnetosphere. A plume of water ice molecules and dust released through geysers on the south polar region provides enough material to feed the E-ring and also the neutral torus of Saturn and the entire magnetosphere. In the time period 2005–2010 the Cassini spacecraft flew close by the moon 14 times, sometimes as low as 25 km above the surface and directly through the plume. For the very first time measurements of plasma and energetic particles inside the plume and its immediate vicinity could be obtained. In this work we summarize the results of energetic electron measurements in the energy range 27 keV to 21 MeV taken by the Low Energy Magnetospheric Measurement System (LEMMS), part of the Magnetospheric Imaging Instrument (MIMI) onboard Cassini in the vicinity of the moon in combination with measurements of the magnetometer instrument MAG and the Electron Spectrometer ELS of the plasma instrument CAPS onboard the spacecraft. Features in the data can be interpreted as that the spacecraft was connected to the plume material along field lines well before entering the high density region of the plume. Sharp absorption signatures as the result of losses of energetic electrons bouncing along those field lines, through the emitted gas and dust clouds, clearly depend on flyby geometry as well as on measured pitch angle/look direction of the instrument. We found that the depletion signatures during some of the flybys show “ramp-like” features where only a partial depletion has been observed further away from the moon followed by nearly full absorption of electrons closer in. We interpret this as partially/fully connected to the flux tube connecting the moon with Cassini. During at least two of the flybys (with some evidence of one additional encounter) MIMI/LEMMS data are consistent with the presence of dust in energetic electron data when Cassini flew directly through the south polar plume. In addition we found gradients in the magnetic field components which are frequently found to be associated with changes in the MIMI/LEMMS particles intensities. This indicates that complex electron drifts in the vicinity of Enceladus could form forbidden regions for electrons which may appear as intensity drop-outs.