We used standard operating protocols to measure risk factors for the Framingham general CVD risk score (sex, age, diabetes, smoking, treated and untreated systolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein [HDL] cholesterol), CHD risk score (sex, age, diabetes, smoking, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol), and stroke risk score (sex, age, systolic blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, prior cardiovascular disease, atrial fibrillation, left-ventricular hypertrophy, use of hypertensive medications) at the baseline of each data cycle, i.e., phases 3, 5, and 7 (14–17). Venous blood was taken in the fasting state or at least 5 hours after a light, fat-free breakfast. Serum for lipid analyses was refrigerated at −4°C and assayed within 72 hours. Cholesterol was measured with the use of a Cobas Fara centrifugal analyzer (Roche Diagnostics System, Nutley, New Jersey). High-density lipoprotein cholesterol was measured by precipitating non-HDL cholesterol with dextran sulfate-magnesium chloride using a centrifuge and measuring cholesterol in the supernatant. Participants underwent an oral glucose tolerance test and new venous blood samples were taken at 2 hours postadministration of a 75 g glucose solution. Blood glucose was measured using the glucose oxidase method on a YSI MODEL 2300 STAT PLUS Analyzer (YSI Corporation, Yellow Springs, Ohio; mean coefficient of variation: 1.4%–3.1%). Diabetes was defined by fasting glucose ≥7.0 mmol/L or 2-hour postload glucose ≥11.1 mmol/L, reported doctor diagnosed diabetes, or use of diabetes medication (24). We measured systolic and diastolic blood pressure twice in the sitting position after 5 minutes rest with a Hawksley random-zero sphygmomanometer (phases 3 and 5) (Lynjay Services Ltd., Worthing, United Kingdom) and OMRON HEM 907 (phase 7) (Omron, Milton Keynes, United Kingdom), the average of two readings used in the analysis. Atrial fibrillation was identified on the Glasgow 12-lead electrocardiogram analysis program combined with manual review (Prof. P. Macfarlane, University of Glasgow, United Kingdom). Limb lead electrocardiograms were classified according to the Minnesota code (25), with tall R waves (codes 3-1 to 3-3) used to reflect left ventricular hypertrophy. Information on smoking and use of antihypertensive drugs and lipid-lowering medication was requested at phases 3, 5, and 7.