Metal–organic framework (MOF) complexes are a sub-class of porous solids which show great promise for gas storage and separation due to their high surface area, low framework density, and tuneable functional pore environment [3]. MOF materials are usually built up from metal ions or clusters bridged by organic linkers to afford 3D extended frameworks with the formation of cavities ranging from microporous to mesoporous region. Several members within this MOF family have achieved impressively high H2 adsorption capacities (albeit at cryogenic temperatures, typically at 77 K) [4] with a record of ∼16 wt% total uptake capacity observed in NU-100 [5] and MOF-200 [6]. However, these high uptake capacities drop dramatically with increasing temperature, and thus none is a practical material. There is thus particular emphasis on optimising the interactions between MOF hosts and adsorbed H2 molecules, and the identification of specific binding interactions and properties of gases within confined space represents an important methodology for the development of better materials that may lead us to systems of practical use. In situ neutron powder diffraction (NPD) at below 10 K has been used previously to determine the locations of D2 within a few best-behaving MOF materials incorporating exposed metal sites [7–12]. It has been found that D2 can bind directly to vacant sites on metal centres, and that the adsorbed D2 molecules have molecular separations comparable to that to D2 in the solid state. These studies have provided invaluable structural rationale for their observed high gas adsorption capacities. Research has thus focused understandably on MOFs with high H2 uptake capacities, while materials showing very low H2 uptake and/or incorporate fully coordinated metal centres are often ignored for this study. Therefore, information on binding interactions within those low-uptake MOF systems is entirely lacking, but can still give important complementary data and potential understanding for the subsequent design and optimisation of hydrogen storage materials.